The Project Gutenberg eBook of Reputation, by W. C. Tuttle

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Reputation

Author: W. C. Tuttle

Release Date: October 1, 2021 [eBook #66441]

Language: English

Produced by: Roger Frank and Sue Clark

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK REPUTATION ***





                              Reputation

                           by W. C. Tuttle

         Author of “Tramps of the Range,” “The Misdeal,” etc.


“_El Tigre! Madre de Dios!_” A man must indeed have the soul of a
devil to draw such an exclamation at the mere mention of his name.

“The Tiger! Mother of God!”

We of Santa Ynez, a little handful of folks living in a little mission
village, near the Mexican border, knew him only by reputation. But
that was enough.

Riders dropped in at the little cantina and over their cups of
_tequila_ or warm beer would tell us of some new deviltry done by Jeff
Tigard, the killer. And Felipe’s hands trembled as he drew the beer,
while we laughed at him for being such a coward.

What would the Tiger do in Santa Ynez, we asked each other. There is
nothing for him here.

“Who knows, _señores_?” trembled Felipe. “Always the tales come closer
to Santa Ynez. Some day he will come.”

“Perhaps to cut off your ears,” laughed Ramon, who is very brave. “I
hear that the Tiger strings them on a gold thread and wears them for a
girdle.”

“_Diable!_” swore Mendez, whose fierce beard belies his character.
“Are we weaklings? One man—bah! Tiger, indeed! The devil may own his
soul, but his body is mortal—and mortal man dies.”

Mendez gulped his warm beer and waited for someone to challenge his
statement.

It was very warm in the little, one-story adobe cantina; too warm for
heated argument, even over the Tiger.

“Mendez speaks true,” nodded Pasquale, who is not a Mexican, but
Italian. “Mortal man dies—when he is killed. That is the point,
_compadres_. This Tiger will most surely die—when he is killed. More
beer, Felipe.”

“But why should the Tiger come to Santa Ynez?” asked Felipe nervously,
clattering the mug-bottoms on the rough table-top.

“_Dios!_” swore Mendez angrily. “One might think he had sent you a
message, Felipe. You are like a timid hen which hears the rustle of a
hawk’s wings in every stirring breeze.”

Ramon laughed softly and drained his mug.

“Why should we have fear of that man? It is true that he has the soul
of a devil. Men have told us that he is without a conscience and that
he kills men for sport. It must be so.

“But we of Santa Ynez need not fear this man. We live at peace with
everyone. Our vineyards are loaded, the hills are dotted with our
cattle and horses and there is nothing but good in our hearts. There
remains only the fact that Felipe serves his beer too warm.”

Ramon laughed joyously and slapped Mendez on the back.

“Is is not so, _compadre_? We do not fear the Tiger, eh?”

“Fear?” Mendez rumbled deep in his beard. “I fear no man. I am
Mendez.”

“And thou art full of warm beer,” stated Pasquale, laughing loudly.

Mendez joined the laugh, even at his own expense, for Mendez was full
of beer, which always makes him boastful, but not angry.

                  *       *       *       *       *

It was very hot in Santa Ynez, as I have said before, but that day it
was oppressive. The very sky seemed to press down upon the earth. Even
the cattle seemed to stand in silent wonder and did not eat.

The piñon pines on the high hills were as black blots against the
sky-line, and the cañons seemed to send out faint whisperings to the
hills and valleys. Perhaps the cañons knew and were telling that a
storm was coming.

But no whispering was needed to tell us that the Storm God was
preparing for a ride through the valley of the Santa Ynez. Long lines
of cattle were winding their way off the hills, like great jointed
serpents, seeking the shelter of the lowlands.

The little street of the village was deserted. Not a horse was tied at
the hitch-racks. The bright colors of the adobe houses had faded in
that queer light, and were now only a gray.

Gone were the laughing voices of the children, which had filled the
street. Even the dogs were in hiding. It was as if a great calamity
had fallen, although there was nothing—except fear and caution.

And then, from the westward, high over the tops of the mountains,
which look down upon the Pacific, came the cloud; like the belching of
a mighty furnace. Swiftly it blotted out the sun, and a semidarkness
settled upon the valley. But there was none of the coolness of the
night.

At the door of the cantina we watched it come—that cloud. There were
Ramon, Mendez, Pasquale, Pancho, a herder, Felipe and myself. None of
us had wives to go home to.

We had been intently watching this cloud, but now the whole sky seemed
overcast, dropping lower and lower, as if to crush out the world.

A dog started across the street toward us, but stopped, sniffing at
the air. A gust of wind stirred the dust at its feet, and, with a
whimper, as if of pain, it turned back, leaning sideways in its walk,
as if bracing against the wind which had not yet come.

“Let us have beer,” said Mendez softly. “_Madre de Dios!_ That dog
bracing against a ghost wind makes me weak of the spine.”

“Thou art Mendez,” said Pasquale, as if to remind Mendez of his former
boasting.

“But I am not that Mendez. Just now I am sober, and I have no stomach
to be sober at a time like this.”

We went into the cantina. I think we were all in need of artificial
courage. Felipe lighted the candles which guttered in the draught and
cast grotesque shadows on the wall; shadows which danced drunkenly at
our every move.

Felipe swore softly at his drawing. “Even the beer is wild tonight. I
can not keep it in the mugs.”

“That was ever my greatest trouble,” laughed Mendez. “They are forever
becoming empty. Hurry, Felipe, or I shall drink from the spigot.”

The wind was wailing now, and from a distance came the jarring of
thunder, like roll of a mighty drum. It was not good to hear. Then the
candles paled in the flash of the lightning.

Mendez drained his mug and thrust it back at Felipe.

“More!” he panted. “Madre de Dios, what a night—for a sober man!”

He but echoed our sentiments. A drift of rain pattered upon the
cantina. Then, like the roar of a stampeded herd, the storm was upon
us. We sat in awe, as the cantina seemed to fairly writhe in the grasp
of that mighty wind and the thunder beat a devil’s tattoo on our very
roof.

Flash after flash, so close together that they seemed one great light,
the lightning seemed to hiss through that whirling, howling tempest.
And the swirling candle flame danced the shadows on the wall, whenever
the lightning ceased for a moment.

Felipe was praying on his knees, with his forehead against a beer
cask. I think I laughed, but it was not with mirth. I could see
Mendez, his eyes shut tight and lips moving. Perhaps I might have
prayed, but I knew no prayer at that time. My thoughts were jumbled.

The door crashed open, letting in a mighty swirl of wind and rain,
which extinguished the candles.

I sprang across the room and forced the door shut.

I thought there was some one near the door, but could not see. Ramon
was lighting the candles, bringing the room back to a half-light
again. The wind roared against the door, rattling the bar, as if angry
at being cheated.

I was looking at Mendez and he was no longer praying. His eyes were
wide open now and he was staring toward the door.

                  *       *       *       *       *

I turned. Just between me and the door stood a man, whose eyes
glittered like beads under the brim of his rain-drenched sombrero. The
evils of purgatory showed in every line of his face; the hawk-like
nose, scarred chin and thin-lipped, grinning mouth.

Two heavy revolvers rested in holsters at his hips, and the cartridges
in his crossed belts gleamed like points of light. He wore black
leather chaparajos, with wide, flaring sides, which flopped like the
wings of a great buzzard.

“Ha, ha, ha, ha!”

He laughed at us mockingly, while the water spewed off his clothes and
ran in dirty puddles along the dirt floor.

“Welcome, señor” said Pasquale in a weak voice.

“What need have I of welcome?”

The man’s voice was like the hoarse croak of an angry buzzard. He took
a step forward and dropped his claw-like hands to his holsters.

“Afraid to_talk?” he sneered. “Know who I am?”

He leered around at us and hunched his shoulders, as if about to
attack.

“I am the Tiger.”

No need to tell us that. We knew it. His looks did not belie his
reputation. For he was every inch a killer.

Perhaps he could see the fear in our eyes and it served to fan his
devilish egotism. He leered at Felipe, who crossed himself, and the
action caused the Tiger much merriment.

“What do you want here?” queried Ramon huskily.

“Want? Ha, ha, ha, ha!”

He threw back his head and laughed, but his beady eyes watched
closely.

“What does the Tiger always want?” He shoved out a claw-like hand,
opening and closing it. “Gold! Give me your gold—all of it!”

“I have little gold, señor” whined Felipe. “We are poor people in
Santa Ynez.”

The storm still raged, but we gave it no heed now.

“Liars!” snarled the Tiger. “I teach men to tell the truth. Give me
the gold, fool!”

Felipe got slowly to his feet and moved back of his small counter,
where he kept his money.

“Stop!” commanded the Tiger. “Do you think I am a fool?”

Felipe stopped, and the Tiger went slowly over to him, keeping an eye
on us all the while. He shoved Felipe aside and picked up the money
box. It was nearly empty and the Tiger threw it aside with a curse.

“Were you expecting me?”

He shoved his evil face close to Felipe, as he spoke, and Felipe
recoiled in terror.

“But I told you that we are poor men, señor,” protested Felipe.

“Bah!”

The Tiger drew a gun and struck Felipe a slashing blow on the head.
Felipe crumpled at his feet. It was a dastardly thing to do, and I
sprang to my feet, but the unwavering muzzle of the gun pointed
straight at my middle and I sat down again.

Felipe tried to get to his feet, but the Tiger kicked him viciously.

“Fool! I said I wanted gold—not a few mangy silver coins.”

“He has no gold,” said Ramon softly. “He does not lie, señor”

“Did I speak to you?” asked the Tiger angrily. “When I ask for your
gold you may lie—if you dare.”

It was a strange sight there in the little cantina. Poor Felipe
sprawled at the feet of the Tiger, his hands outspread on the floor,
while the Tiger leaned forward facing us, a snarl writhing his thin
lips.

Ramon was backed against the table, and almost into Mendez’s chair.
Pasquale was sprawled forward, his arms on the table-top, while I
hunched in my chair, afraid to move, I think.

Suddenly the Tiger whipped off his dripping sombrero and sent it
spinning on to the table. A whisp of the water struck me in the eyes,
but I did not blink.

“Put your gold in the hat,” said the Tiger. “I have stayed too long.”

“But señor—” Ramon started to protest.

“Gold—not lies!” rasped the Tiger.

I moved my feet to enable me to get into my pocket, and they came in
contact with something. It was Pancho under the table. I had forgotten
him. For a moment I thought perhaps he was intending to shoot the
Tiger. Pancho was armed, because I could see the butt of his pistol,
but his attitude was one of cramped prayer.

I tossed my slender wallet into the hat and prayed that the Tiger
might not see how meager it was. Behind me the door creaked, as if
from the wind, but when I looked up at the Tiger I knew that it was
not wind.

He was standing in the same position, gun leveled at us, but the sneer
seemed frozen on his face and his eyes were dilated. I looked back.

At the closed door stood a man, empty-handed. He was dressed in the
loose shirt, baggy pants, worn shoes of a peon. He wore no hat and his
wet, colorless hair hung bedraggled about his face.

He was rather scrawny looking, thin of face, and his eyes were gray
and very level. I glanced back at the Tiger. He had dropped the gun
and stepped back against Felipe’s counter. I think his eyes were
closed, but it was hard to tell in that weak light.

“Welcome, señor,” said Mendez huskily.

“_Gracias, señor._”

The man spoke softly, and there was a half-smile on his lips, as he
crossed to the Tiger, who threw up one arm, as if to ward off a blow.
It was as if he were hypnotized. We watched in amazement.

He looked down at Felipe and turned his head toward us, as he said, in
Spanish,

“Move him to an easier position and wash away the blood.”

Mendez and I picked him up and placed him near the table, but we were
too interested to take time in doctoring poor Felipe. The Tiger had
not moved. Now the stranger unbuckled the Tiger’s belts and let them
fall to the floor.

“Undress,” ordered the stranger.

The Tiger slowly removed every garment. He seemed like a man asleep.
Not once did he speak nor make a sign, and he stood there, stripped to
the skin, while the stranger dressed in the cowboy garb, tossing the
peon garments aside.

The stranger dumped the wallets out of the sombrero and put it on his
head.

“It was a terrific storm, _señores_,” said the stranger softly. “It
fairly blew my horse from under me, and at times I despaired of
finishing my quest.”

“Señor, we do not understand,” said Ramon, pointing at the stripped
Tiger.

“It is a short tale,” smiled the stranger. “I was a guest at this
man’s house. It was miles from here. Not so far, perhaps, if one went
as the crow flies, but there have been many twistings which made it
long.

“This man had a wife, and but one bed. To me they gave the bed,
because I was their guest. But I am not the kind of a man who deprives
a woman; so I gave her the bed.

“This man did not know. I had much gold which he wanted. He thought
that I was in that bed. That is the tale, _señores_. It was not nice.”

He turned and motioned to the Tiger. The rain still whipped in from
the west, but he drove the Tiger out into it, while we crowded into
the doorway. Swiftly the stranger uncoiled a rope and dropped a loop
around the neck of the Tiger, and mounted his horse.

“Señor,” called Ramon, “we shall wonder much over this, and not know
whom we shall mention in our prayers. Who art thou?”

And from out of the darkness, in the direction of the vanishing rider,
came the words—

“Jefferson Tigard, _señores_; and thank you. _Buenas noches._”


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the August 30, 1923
issue of Adventure magazine.]

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK REPUTATION ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
